# Compatibility with Learning Management Systems

The files generated by the `rqti` package are fully compatible with the
OPAL LMS. Furthermore, adhering to QTI 2.1 specifications, these files
are suitable for use in any LMS supporting QTI 2.1. You can find a list
of QTI-compatible LMS platforms here:
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QTI>.

To upload your tasks to an LMS, create a zip archive containing the test
and import it into the target LMS.

We have conducted compatibility tests by uploading `rqti` zip archives
to LMS platforms such as OpenOlat and Canvas. In most instances, tasks
generated by `rqti` behaved as expected within these LMS platforms.
However, we have identified some inconsistencies, documented below.
Since our files are QTI 2.1 compatible (with verification and automated
tests for all task types), issues typically arise from the LMS side.

If you use a different LMS and encounter problems, please open an issue
on GitHub: <https://github.com/shevandrin/rqti/issues>

## OPAL

As noted above, our files are fully compatible with OPAL, and we even
support selected QTI 2.2 features.

In particular, downloadable files and calculator support are available
in OPAL, but only in connection with QTI 2.2.

### Extra `assessmentTest` Attributes

Concretely, this functionality is currently based on custom attributes
in the `assessmentTest` element:

``` xml
<assessmentTest
  ...
  data-downloads="file://downloads/;"
  data-features="scientific-calculator;mark-items;show-test-time;">
```

Under QTI 2.2, this is permissible, although it should be clearly
documented.

A simpler alternative would be to include such files directly in the
content package, for example through a dedicated `downloads` folder
referenced in the manifest. However, this raises an important issue in
exam settings, where file downloads may be restricted, for example by
Safe Exam Browser. In such cases, files should be managed explicitly as
downloadable LMS resources rather than being encoded in the test
definition itself. This would be possible without relying on custom
`data-` attributes.

More generally, we believe such attributes should be avoided whenever
possible, because they weaken the idea of a common standard.

With regard to the calculator, this may be better understood as a
feature of the LMS rather than of the test itself. Accordingly, it could
be configured at the LMS or test-delivery level rather than within the
QTI test definition. The same consideration applies to other
`data-features` such as `mark-items` and `show-test-time`. More broadly,
the additional flexibility introduced in QTI 2.2 is not necessarily
problematic; it may also indicate where the standard itself still lacks
useful features.

### Tolerance for Text Gaps

Tolerance handling for text-entry questions is currently implemented via
extra tags, that are not compatible with QTI. In this case, however, we
do see a legitimate need for extending the QTI standard, because
tolerance is an important feature for text-response processing and is
not adequately supported by the base specification.

Example:

``` xml
<setOutcomeValue identifier="SCORE_codieren">
  <mapTolResponse xmlns="http://bps-system.de/xsd/imsqti_ext_maptolresponse"
                  identifier="codieren"
                  tolerance="2"
                  toleranceMode="absolute"/>
</setOutcomeValue>
```

### Allow Pasting in Essay Questions

The attribute `data-allowPaste` in `extendedTextInteraction` is fine in
QTI 2.2. However, this functionality can usually be handled at the
system level, for example through Safe Exam Browser, and therefore does
not need to be encoded in the QTI test definition itself.

### MathML

A custom namespace prefix for MathML is ignored. For example, the
following does not work:

### Referencing files

You cannot reference files or images (e.g. via `<a href=...>`). They
must be embedded directly in the file via base64 encoding.

``` xml
xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
...
<m:math>
  ...
</m:math>
```

By contrast, using the MathML namespace directly on the `math` element
works:

``` xml
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
  ...
</math>
```

## OpenOlat

The following functionalities are currently non-functional on OpenOlat:

- The parameters `include_lower_bound` and `include_upper_bound` in the
  tolerance customization of numeric gaps are ignored. This is a minor
  problem since it is usually irrelevant whether the bounds are included
  or not. Still, we are actively investigating this issue.

## Canvas

Note that Canvas exports to the fairly old QTI 1.2 version, which makes
it difficult to understand what is happening internally and to diagnose
or resolve these issues.

The following functionalities encounter problems when used with Canvas:

- The `inlineChoice` task type does not appear to be supported.
- Feedback information seems to be ignored during import.
- `textEntryInteraction` elements are incorrectly imported as essay
  questions, rendering both numeric and text gap items non-functional.
- Handling of text input length and placeholders is not supported.
- Tables are converted to either `match` or `categorization`
  interactions, which leads to several issues:
  - One-in-row tables lose distractors (i.e., options that are not
    mapped to any row); one-in-column tables have not yet been tested.
    Directed pairs work correctly (since there are no distractors); MPC
    tables have not yet been tested.

## Test files

Official conformance test files for QTI v2.1:

<https://www.imsglobal.org/developers/apipalliance/conformance/QTIconformanceresources.cfm>

These resources are incomplete. In particular, they do not include
`textEntryInteraction` items with a `responseDeclaration` of
`baseType="float"` (i.e., numeric gap questions), and only a single
variant of `matchInteraction` is provided. Several other interaction
types are also missing.

Additional examples can be obtained from the implementation guide:

<https://www.imsglobal.org/question/qtiv2p1/imsqti_implv2p1.html>

## APIs

OPAL provides a strong API that supports direct upload of QTI files.

OpenOlat also offers an API, but it is currently unclear whether QTI
files can be uploaded directly. The API documentation can be accessed at
<http://localhost:8080/restapi/api-docs/> for a local installation,
although a server URL can of course be used as well. Potentially
relevant endpoints include `/repo/entries` (`PUT`) and `/qpool/items`
(`POST`, `PUT`). However, we have not yet tested these endpoints.

Blackboard provides an API as well:
<https://developer.blackboard.com/portal/displayApi>. At present, it is
unclear whether this API supports QTI upload, and we have not yet tested
it. Based on the available documentation, this currently seems unlikely.

Canvas provides an API that appears to support both uploading and
migrating QTI files, although we have not yet tested this functionality:
<https://mitt.uib.no/doc/api/all_resources.html>, see endpoint
`/api/v1/accounts/:account_id/content_migrations`
